---
layout: post
title:  "My Investigation into Rosetta Institute of Biomedical Research"
date:   2024-05-26 20:20:35 -0700
categories: Comma, Separated, Categories, Go, Here
---

<!--
In this HTML comment is the voice transcription (using Google Docs' "Voice
typing" feature); these were 2 paragraphs, without any linebreaks; I inserted
the linebreaks when creating this post. Then follows the outside of this comment
is the polished up blog I generated using ChatGPT, on 2024/05/26. That's why the
filename purposely contains today's date, when I'm finally writing this text,
and the `date` field in the header above contains the actual date. Looking back
at the ChatGPT UI, apparently I was using the recently released GPT-4o.

This is the result of research that I've done on Rosetta Institute of Biomedical
Research. Their website is Rosetta institute.org all the research that I've done
so far doesn't yield any physical address linked to them and the ones that I
could find they seem to be not present at that address so this they advertise on
their website that they partner with UC Berkeley UC San Diego Columbia
University and Imperial College of London to offer summer 2 weeks program for
students students in high school and for the in-person courses at currently
their charging around 3,500 

We almost signed up for the summer program we were about to make a payment and
just before making the payment I thought of checking a few different things
about the the courses and the company itself so everything else looks good
testimony of peoples kind of photographs from 2013 or so everything checks out
but one thing that was curious was that they do not have an address on their
website they simply list Alameda California as this location which is very
generic so I went to Berkeley website berkeley.edu and search up their name
Rosetta Institute couldn't find anything relevant there I use Google search to
search berkeley.edu specifically and even that result did not those results like
they weren't any results for Rosetta Institute mentioned on berkeley.edu website
the email that we received for making the payment says that make a check payable
to Rosetta Institute of Medical Research at a certain address in Alameda but
when I use that address to look up that address that location on Google Maps
doesn't show any name anything related to Rosetta Institute so I used the street
view on Google Maps and see if there are any kind of office significant a fixed
it but nothing turned up even on Google Street View it's a very blank building
black door at that address some more Google search showed that there are various
websites that are dedicated to like helping students find summer programs they
all list Rosetta Institute as one of the options and again the same wordings
around we offer rising and exceptional high school students of course in
biotechnology of biomedical research but none of those websites actually linked
or showed any address of this this business or this company and some of the
results now started showing that this is listed or linked to a person named Ryan
Holzer I believe and up by the way this name is also mentioned in the website
and on the email address or sorry email signatures that that they are using to
correspond with us but by the way the email does not contain any specific
address to get to in in Berkeley has to be to show up if you're driving up to
them they say that this address will be shared at a later time pictures I can
kind of suspect that they may not have this thing kind of nail down or confirmed
yet so yeah on the link the one of the websites they kind of found the link
between Ryan Holzer and four businesses two of those businesses are now closed
and two are active the two businesses that are closed they were both named
Rosetta biomedical something so that's not a good sign I went to California
security of States website and searched for Rosetta Institute without the courts
and I got three results and all three results like they seem to be related to
this company but I cannot be sure because all of them have the phrase Institute
of biomedical something I'm in research and maybe there are a few other words
and all through those three businesses are closed the address that is in the
email they sent to send the check to at that address they were so many addresses
that there were so many businesses that were listed for like something to do
with tiles floorings some Pharmacy related businessBut nothing related to the
paramedical researchers at The Institute or anywhere close to that so yeah this
all tells me that this is kind of a fishy business and I don't feel comfortable
paying $3,500 for a 2 week program sending my daughter to a place who's
legitimacy I cannot confirm yeah it does look legitimate I looked up on LinkedIn
this Mr Brian George is listed on LinkedIn as well they have a Twitter link
Twitter page as well I think they have a Facebook page as well but I did not
look very closely at that and there are quite a few different people who have
listed their experience as a teaching assistant at Rosetta Institute and there
are a few students as well who have LinkedIn profiles who have listed there that
they have attended the residential program so program is legitimate it seems
like but but it's just that if there is no physical address if I can't find
these people's kind of credentials online clearly then it are not feeling I
don't feel comfortable sending my daughter to a 2 week program there moreover I
think Beyond just this kind of missing information lack of address this also
shows that they are not really a research institute they say they are
independently funded Research Institute if they are a research institute they
would have an office they haven't have a location that may have a lab Etc that
they're employees go to or their Partners or who is doing the research but if I
can't find that anywhere on Google Maps or on Google search results or
Berkeley's website or UC Berkeley's website or Columbia's website columbia.edu
as well so that raises the question that this is number one not associated with
these universities but these universities are probably leasing out space and
dormitories to this company but this company in itself is purely for this kind
of classes running these sessions and they don't really have a research
institute so yeah for that reason we are backing out hopefully this was helpful
for anybody trying to research them in the future 

ChatGPT prompt (on 2026/05/26): Create a blog post from the transcription of my
voice notes:<a blank line and then the above text, without linebreaks was given
to ChatGPT.>

Next prompt (on 2024/06/19): Produce the markdown for the above blog post you
generated.

I pasted the output, and then made the following changes:
1. Increased heading levels of all items by 2; removed 2 # symbols from every
   heading.
2. Removed the first line/heading, because the blog post title contains the same
   text.
3. Changed child => daughter
4. In the last sentence, Changed "your educational" => "your child's
   educational".
5. Inserted linebreaks; each paragraph here was originally on a sigle line.
6. Added section 'URLs', and Manually pasted the list of URLs from my research.
7. Changed the Blog title to remove prefix 'Unveiling the Truth: '; it felt like
   it was over the top. Also changed this file's name to remove that part from
filename.

Result follows:
-->

In my quest to ensure the best educational opportunities for my daughter, I
recently embarked on a deep dive into the Rosetta Institute of Biomedical
Research. Their website, RosettaInstitute.org, promotes summer programs in
partnership with prestigious institutions like UC Berkeley, UC San Diego,
Columbia University, and Imperial College London. Despite the impressive
affiliations and promising courses for high school students, my research led me
to several concerning findings.

## The Lack of a Physical Address

A significant red flag arose when I couldn't find a physical address linked to
the Rosetta Institute. Their website vaguely lists Alameda, California, as their
location. However, this general reference didn't satisfy my need for concrete
details. Determined to uncover more, I explored multiple avenues:

1. **Berkeley’s Website Search:** A thorough search on Berkeley.edu yielded no
   relevant results for the Rosetta Institute. Even a Google search specifically
targeting Berkeley's site came up empty.
2. **Google Maps Investigation:** The address provided for sending payments in
   Alameda didn't show any indication of Rosetta Institute on Google Maps.
Street View revealed a nondescript building with a black door—hardly what one
would expect from a renowned research institute.

## Inconsistent Online Presence

Several student-focused websites list the Rosetta Institute as a summer program
option, echoing the same marketing language found on Rosetta's own site. Despite
the widespread promotion, none of these listings provided a physical address.
Furthermore, the name Ryan George appeared repeatedly, both on the institute's
website and in email correspondence. However, a deeper dive into Ryan George’s
connections revealed some troubling details:

1. **Business Listings:** Searches on the California Secretary of State's
   website showed three related results, all involving biomedical research, but
none confirmed a current, active entity. Additionally, previous businesses under
similar names were no longer operational.
2. **Other Businesses at the Same Address:** The provided address also housed
   various unrelated businesses, like flooring companies and pharmacies, but
nothing connected to biomedical research.

## Questions of Legitimacy

Despite some online presence on LinkedIn and other social media platforms, the
lack of a physical address and transparent credentials raised significant
doubts:

1. **LinkedIn and Social Media:** Ryan George and the Rosetta Institute have
   profiles on LinkedIn and Twitter. Several individuals list their roles as
teaching assistants, and some students note their attendance at the institute's
programs. While this lends some credibility, it doesn't fully dispel my
concerns.
2. **Affiliations with Universities:** My investigation suggests that the
   universities mentioned might only be leasing space to the Rosetta Institute
for their summer programs, rather than being true partners in research. This
distinction is crucial, as it implies that the Rosetta Institute is more of an
educational service provider than a genuine research entity.

## Final Decision

Given these findings, I am not comfortable proceeding with the $3,500 payment
for a two-week program at the Rosetta Institute. The combination of a vague
location, questionable business history, and lack of verifiable credentials
makes it too risky. While the program may be legitimate in terms of providing
educational experiences, the surrounding uncertainties are too significant to
ignore.

I hope this detailed account of my research and findings helps others who are
considering the Rosetta Institute of Biomedical Research. It’s crucial to
thoroughly vet educational programs, especially when they demand substantial
financial and personal commitments. Stay informed and prioritize transparency
and credibility to ensure the best outcomes for your child's educational
investments.

***Disclosure***: The above blog was generated using ChatGPT. To see my original
notes, see the HTML contents of this page.

## URLs

Below are most of the URLs/links of searches and webpages I looked at, during this research.

The address they shared for sending the check, the non-descript builiding, as
seen on Google maps Street View: 2177 Harbor Bay Pkwy, Alameda, CA, 94502
[https://www.google.com/maps/place/2177+Harbor+Bay+Pkwy,+Alameda,+CA+94502](https://www.google.com/maps/place/2177+Harbor+Bay+Pkwy,+Alameda,+CA+94502/@37.7291249,-122.2471936,3a,75y,132.4h,94.88t/data=!3m6!1e1!3m4!1sApYwWM7MpTGf1jtBWdL1iw!2e0!7i16384!8i8192!4m15!1m8!3m7!1s0x808f846b5aae3a03:0x554afe95159bf16d!2s2177+Harbor+Bay+Pkwy,+Alameda,+CA+94502!3b1!8m2!3d37.7288816!4d-122.2472953!16s%2Fg%2F11dztqk4qg!3m5!1s0x808f846b5aae3a03:0x554afe95159bf16d!8m2!3d37.7288816!4d-122.2472953!16s%2Fg%2F11dztqk4qg?entry=ttu)

<https://twitter.com/RosettaBio>

<https://x.com/RosettaBio>

<https://www.linkedin.com/search/results/all/?keywords=Rosetta%20Institute%20of%20Biomedical%20Research&sid=A%40N>

<https://www.linkedin.com/search/results/people/?keywords=rosetta%20institute&origin=CLUSTER_EXPANSION&page=2&sid=X>

<https://www.linkedin.com/in/ryan-g-holzer-85111144/>

<https://www.google.com/search?q=site%3Aberkeley.edu+ryan+holzer>

<https://www.google.com/search?q=columbia+university+rosetta+institute>

<https://www.rosettainstitute.org/biomedical-summer-camps/>

<https://www.rosettainstitute.org/biomedical-summer-camps/curriculum/>

<https://www.rosettainstitute.org/biomedical-summer-camps/benefits-of-attendance/>

<https://www.rosettainstitute.org/>

<https://www.forbes.com/sites/kristenmoon/2023/11/10/10-winter-camps-for-high-school-students/>

<https://www.rosettainstitute.org/contact/>

<https://www.rosettainstitute.org/biomedical-summer-camps/faq/>

<https://www.google.com/maps/search/rosetta+institute+of+biomedical+research>

<https://www.berkeley.edu/search/?q=%22rosetta+institute%22>

<https://www.berkeley.edu/search/?q=rosetta+institute>

<https://www.google.com/search?q=site%3Aberkeley.edu+%22rosetta+institute%22>

<https://www.google.com/search?q=rosetta+institute+alameda+ca+-site%3Arosettainstitute.org>

<https://www.google.com/search?q=%22rosetta+institute%22+-site%3Arosettainstitute.org>

<https://www.google.com/maps/place/2177+Harbor+Bay+Pkwy,+Alameda,+CA+94502/@37.7288816,-122.2472953,17z/>

<https://www.google.com/search?q=%222177+Harbor+Bay+Pkwy%22>

<https://www.alamedaca.gov/files/assets/public/v/1/finance/current-businesses-february-2019.pdf>

<https://www.corporationwiki.com/p/2ew92x/ryan-george-holzer>

<https://www.corporationwiki.com/p/2kssl6/rosetta-medical-research-institute-inc>

<https://www.summercamps.com/camp/rosetta-institute-molecular-medicine-summer-camps/>

<https://www.bbb.org/us/ca/alameda/profile/flooring-contractors/bay-area-flooring-superstore-1116-301108>

<https://www.yelp.com/biz/tata-enterprises-alameda>

<https://www.google.com/maps/place/1835+Queen+Elizabeth+Way,+San+Jose,+CA+95132/@37.4136029,-121.8533716,18z/>

<https://www.google.com/search?q=california+list+of+registered+companies>

<https://bizfileonline.sos.ca.gov/search/business>

<https://www.activityhero.com/biz/rosetta-institute-of-biomedical-research>

<https://portolapilot.com/summer-programs-are-a-waste-of-time-and-money/>

<https://talk.collegeconfidential.com/t/rosetta-institutes-cancer-neuroscience-camps/1685720/44>

<https://www.reddit.com/r/ApplyingToCollege/comments/hxvpep/is_rosetta_institute_of_biomedical_research_worth/>

<https://www.berkeleyside.org/listings/items/rosetta-institute-of-biomedical-research-molecular-medicine-workshops>

